#summary Flash learning applications that work with the SWF Activity Module.
#labels Featured

== Flash elearning applications showcase ==

This wiki page is dedicated to Flash developers who have created learning applications that work with the SWF Activity Module in Moodle. If you have Flash learning applications that you'd like to show off, please comment below with a link to a working demo, preferably in a Moodle course that allows guest access. You can also include links to your personal/organisation's web pages which will hopefully bring more Flash elearning development work your way.

Please only post links directly related to Flash learning applications that can be deployed with the SWF Activity Module in Moodle. I look forward to checking out your work and seeing what wonderful things people are using this project for!

----

== Disclaimer ==

Inclusion on this page in no way implies endorsement, recommendation or verification by the developer(s) of the SWF Activity Module and this project site. All entries are taken at their word and a brief investigation that the link actually leads to working Flash learning applications. The developer(s) of the SWF Activity Module bear no responsibility or liability for any links and their content posted here.

*Please note:* It is much easier to integrate Flash applications developed using AS 3.0 with Moodle. Only basic functions, such as pushing grades, are supported for legacy AS 2.0 applications.

----

== matbury.com ==

I'm the creator of this project and an elearning developer specialising in Flash. I have a research and development Moodle which showcases some of my Flash learning applications.

My Moodle: http://moodle.matbury.com/

My Flash learning applications: http://moodle.matbury.com/course/view.php?id=17 (Login as a guest)

My blog: http://blog.matbury.com/

----

== Active Den (formerly Flash Den) ==

Envato is a startup based out of Australia with people around the world and sites serving pages every second. We started in a living room in 2006 and have been steadily working to build our company into a world-class contender. Our background is creative, we love open source, we believe that work is about way more than just making money, and we’re totally committed to making products that are awesome!

Flash games: http://activeden.net/category/flash/games

----

== Novel Games ==

Welcome to Business @ Novel Games. Here you can license our games and use them in your websites or other media. We offer two types of licenses: Branded Game SWF License and Game Source Codes License. Our ever growing library has more than 280 single player and multi player Flash games and you must be able to find one that suits your needs. You can learn more about game licensing here.

Novel Games: http://business.novelgames.com/

----

== A4 Flash Game.com ==

Buy flash game template with full source code files to make flash games yourself for online playing on website or offline playing on PC directly. Flash game templates can be customized, modified using Adobe Flash 8 or above. The full source code of flash game templates (.FLA) with actionscript will be emailed to you once the order is processed. 

A4 Flash Game.com: http://www.a4flashgame.com/

----

== ElearningTemplates.com ==

These are Flash eLearning game templates that are super easy to use. You purchase the Flash source file (.fla) and simply open the file in Flash and add text. Then publish the .swf and insert it into your course. (You must have Adobe Flash to edit these files.)

Each template is fully customizable in Flash since we give you the .fla Flash source file. Games are made to work with rapid elearning software such as: Articulate Presenter, Adobe Captivate, Atlantic Link, Lectora, Unison, ProForm, Adobe Presenter, Adobe Flash, PowerPoint, Udutu and more.

Reuse the e Learning Flash game templates over and over again in multiple courses…or even other websites and presentations.

ElearningTemplates.com: http://elearningtemplates.com/elearning-games/

----

== GamezArena ==

GamezArena is one of the first online game licensing providers to offer top quality Flash games to companies and individuals. GamezArena's presence was the result of a labor of love between Sabina Nore and Ryan Nore. The designer and developer, from PepFX Design in Vienna, Austria, launched GamezArena with less than a dozen games. GamezArena stabilized its presence as a Flash game provider upon the release of "Beanies". 


GamezArena: http://www.gamezarena.com/order/flash-games.php

----

== Your name ==

Your intro...

Your links...

----

== eLearning Brothers ==

These Flash eLearning templates and quizzes are very simple to use and edit. Each template is fully customizable in Adobe Flash (we give you the .fla Flash source file). The final exported flash (.swf) file can be imported into most rapid elearning software (Articulate Presenter, Adobe Captivate, Atlantic Link, Lectora, Unison, ProForm, Adobe Presenter, Adobe Flash, PowerPoint, Udutu, and more).

Reuse the eLearning Flash interaction and quiz templates over and over again in multiple courses or even websites and other presentations.

eLearning Brothers: http://elearningtemplates.com/elearning-activities/

----