#summary Using SMIL XML data specification.
#labels Featured

= SMIL =

SMIL, Sequenced Multimedia Integration Language, is a W3C recommended XML markup language for describing multimedia presentations. It defines markup for timing, layout, animations, visual transitions, and media embedding, among other things. SMIL allows the presentation of media items such as text, images, video, and audio, as well as links to other SMIL presentations, and files from multiple web servers. SMIL markup is written in XML, and has similarities to HTML. For more information see [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synchronized_Multimedia_Integration_Language Wikipedia.org].

----

== SMIL and Moodle ==

Moodle 1.9's file repository system recognises SMIL files as text and conveniently allows teachers and admins to edit them in situ.

----

== Blog article ==

I wrote an article on my blog about SMIL in relation to elearning:

  * [http://blog.matbury.com/2011/10/23/whats-smil-and-why-should-we-use-it/ What’s SMIL and why should we use it?]

----

== Recommendations ==

I recommend using SMIL 2.1 as a data tree structure for XML driven Flash applications. Implementations may use as much or as little of the data provided in SMIL files to generate a particular learning interaction.

----

== Examples ==

Your browser may or may not support SMIL file types. If not, your browser will attempt to download the files. You can view them with any text or XML editor. [http://notepad-plus-plus.org/ Notepad++] is a good open source text and XML editor.

[http://matbury.com/assets/slide_show.smil Slide show presentation] (Triggers download in some browsers)

[http://matbury.com/assets/elem_common_objects.smil Learning activity data] (Triggers download in some browsers)

----

== W3C.org SMIL Documentation ==

  * [http://www.w3.org/2005/SMIL21/SMIL21.dtd Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL 2.1)] documentation on W3C.org.

[http://www.w3.org/2005/SMIL21/Language SMIL 2.1 namespace reference page] (2006/11/24).